thank you all very much for coming as
some of you are just scooting in at the
last second how many of you for you is
this your first Developers Conference
Wow thank you all so much how many of
you who have been more how many of you
have been to more than two developer
conferences Wow so all of you people who
are newbies check out the old folks so
you know who to bug for questions all of
you who've been around for a very long
time please welcome all these new people
or helping us expand the community it is
great to see you all here I'm glad we
have a Civic Auditorium this year those
who've you been here for the last two
years now that we've always overflowed
the room that we have been in that
doesn't seem to be a problem today at
the rate we're growing there could be a
problem another year or two in which
case we'll try and run out the San Jose
arena for the next web objects little
review session it is great to be here we
are so excited to have you here we got a
lot of great stuff to talk about and a
lot of great speakers and people I want
to bring up on stage so I'll go ahead
and get started just start out with I
want to welcome you to the world of web
objects for those of you who are here
for the first time we got a lot of
things to cover this is really a whole
new beginning this is the beginning of
my talk it's the beginning of lots of
cheesy animations more importantly it's
been a week full of learning there are
so many sessions that people working
like crazy for the last few weeks to get
ready for you we got some brilliant
people some fantastic speakers you're
going to learn so much here in the web
objects track as well as in the other
tracks that you may have a chance to
sample it's also the building of a whole
new era for web objects web objects as
you know really created the app server
market five years ago we've been working
very hard to try and bring it up into
the modern internet age with the
emergence of java and internet standards
as well as being part of the Apple
community and we really think we've done
something pretty fantastic it's a work
in progress like everything else in this
world but we're very excitable what
we've done and really want to help you
get involved what we're doing the seven
things we'll be learning this week first
of all we want to help you get to know
the people behind web objects get to
know the people that you've been seeing
the email from or code samples from over
the years
want to give you the inside scoop on
what objects five as you've probably
heard about this morning when I talked
with a little bit towards the end about
some of the things we're doing with
documentation some of the training and
consulting services available for my
services some information about the
different sort of sessions you want to
attend this week as well as a few
surprises so to start with I want to
invite out the engineering team behind
web objects these are the people who
have built with objects five
[Applause]
[Laughter]
I've been choreography lessons later but
this is Tony crew yovan is the new
director of objects recently promoted to
director in charge of objects
engineering I've asked you to hold your
applause to the end Oh we'll never get
finished with this Jen you have proven
on charge of the quality and sustaining
engineering andreas banker Jeff Glasson
francois jiwoo and stan german big hand
for Baba's engineering
of course all of you know the gang a
product out the door and billing the
software is only a small piece of the
puzzle so I also want to give you a
chance to meet the rest of the team
behind webobjects Bob if you could lead
out the troops please this is the web
object support team Bob and I are in
marketing we lead other people follow
eventually we have with these to
announce Bob Fraser the new web objects
product manager Bob works position that
many of you know I've been trying to
fill my job is to be in charge of all
the developers stuff we do at Apple and
I want someone who could really focus on
moe Bob you truly understood the
technology to really focus 100% on
building and selling web objects so very
pleased to have Bob Fraser on board many
of you know Tavares Ford he's at the end
of the DTS email address that many of
you have to deal with Matt Rolf's and of
course is in charge of documentation for
web objects he'll be sharing more
shortly
Robert esker is in charge of all the
service and support for web objects and
Mac OS 10 server in the Apple care
organization and then Tim Johnson and
James MC from Apple Life Services who
many of you know thank you guys very
much
and of course the star of our show web
objects 5 what objects 5 is shipping
today we are very excited to have web
objects 5 out here is just telling the
number of people this is the first time
I've ever had all GM software sitting on
my computer Mac OS 10 is GM well babak's
5 is GM Mac OS 10 server is GM and not
only is it all GM software I can hold it
all in one hand and carry around for a
full day without getting tired thanks to
the new titanium PowerBook g4 it's a
wonderful time to be an apple developer
we're very excited that the original web
application server is now available in
Java and we really want the world to
know that this is the incredibly
powerful way to create Java server
applications there's a lot of people
building server applications in Java a
lot of them putting an awful lot of
effort into it we want to say you know
hey we want people who are smart but
lazy to do it the web objects way
there's really two things we're focusing
on with what objects 5 we really see
this as the engine engine for powering
the internet because the most exciting
thing on the Internet today is rich
dynamic content and this is a great way
for large organizations who have a lot
of content where that's digital
multimedia whether it's large corporate
databases we're at enterprise
integration systems they need to be able
to interact with that data across the
internet this is also a great way for
web developers to bring their
applications to the internet a lot of
people who have desktop applications
client-server applications legacy web
applications they need something really
flexible scalable and maintainable we
wanted people to see that what about
this really is the smart way to bring
their applications to the Internet now
some of you may be new to web objects so
I just want to step real quickly through
the architecture that we use in web
objects now all of you familiar with
static websites where you have a basic
HTML file deliver it through a web
server to a browser client what an
application server does is it makes that
much more dynamic this way you don't
have all the same people saying the same
content all the time we introduced an
application server into the mix which
allows you to put dynamic logic in the
middle of your application and then
rather than having to hand code the HTML
you have templates which allow you to
easily interject the appropriate
formatting and present
for your application and then you have
an object model you pull your
information from now a lot of these
times you will have the same file where
people try to put their application
logic and their object model and their
templates all together some scripting
languages which remain unnamed are
notorious for the sort of thing
well objects we have a nice strict
separation which are our object model
and our templates and our business logic
and our abdu model also isolates you
directly from the databases your temp
your HTML file does not know what
database you are using it doesn't know
the schema of your database all you know
is that there's an object model which
can talk to mainframes databases ERP
systems direct directories or XML data
streams the other great thing about this
because this modular architecture you
can is that same logic in the same
backends to deliver extremely rich
clients using Java not just HTML and
also you can use your application server
technology that runs on the server to
really scale up the power and
flexibility of your system to meet
increased load so with one obvious table
there's really five key benefits we're
talking about since we have so many new
people here I really wanted to stress
some of the things the many of you in
the web objects community may have taken
for granted and but people have failed
to realize the web objects even though a
lot of other people have appeared in the
last five years there's still several
powerful advantages that well be about
it's has or competing technologies these
five key technologies that want to spend
some time on our automated data access
streamline page generation incredibly
powerful rich desktop application
support a very scalable Java deployment
and integrated developer tools so
starting with I will talk a little bit
more about automated data access the big
thing about web objects is you don't
need to write SQL or JDBC code in order
to talk to a database we automate all
that hard work for you this makes a
couple of benefits one it means you're
independent of your database you can
change databases you can modify the
schema you can several databases at once
your application code doesn't have to
know the intimate details of your
database much more flexibility it also
means your application programmers don't
have to be very sophisticated database
programmers we handle all the fetching
although caching all the updating of
your database objects automatically via
this transparent persistence layer
notice
prized objects help demonstrate this I
wanna vine up Inverness Kim of the web
objects engineering team to do a quick
demo of how we do data modeling and web
objects Ernest and can we please switch
we please switch to the demo machine so
we have here web objects five running on
Mac OS 10 taking advantage of the
gorgeous lock wheel user interface and
we'll go ahead and create a new data
model so we just go through and you
notice the JDBC is the preferred data
based access mechanism for web objects
five you just actually access it via a
standard URL going over the network or
to the localhost for a database for this
example we'll use open base which is
available as part of the developer tools
to support our examples the number of
other databases available for web
objects as we'll be talking about
shortly and we just find a database
table we choose some of the information
that we want to walk through and I'm a
Figo's and reverse engineers a data
model and we'll actually for simplicity
we'll skip over the relationships but
you see there's a whole host of tables
and it goes through and it figures out
what the tables are and generates
objects that correspond to that and
defines a model file which can
optionally include all the referential
integrity checks that means that you get
an object model that you can work with
in your application which is mapped to
the database but it actually knows about
all the relationships associated within
that table so this tool just by talking
to the database knows all the
relationships the primary key is the
foreign keys to one-to-many
relationships an incredibly
sophisticated model that is being
figured out automatically by the tool
and this is all work that you do not
have to do the tool does it for you
this means you can get started writing
your application logic and working at
the high level object model using the
power of the web objects tools
thank you very much darkness
so you've got your data model so you
know what your data is now the next
challenge is doing something interesting
with it
well bits provides a couple of different
ways that you can really take advantage
of that one is we handle a lot of hard
work of page generation with web objects
we try to really separate out the
information needed for dinner eight a
page into three key pieces the HTML
template the business logic and the
enterprise object containing the data
persistence and we use a technology
called web components to really
encapsulate these things while isolating
the HTML templates and the logic from
the data the web component architecture
manages all the hard work of doing HTML
request response to manage the sessions
the users the security all the things
that become very complicated when you're
doing three-tier web applications this
technology is also very flexible and can
be used to generate HTML XML or even
smile for multimedia applications and
also makes it very easy to embed rich
client-side scripting and other controls
into your data templates without having
to corrupt your business logic or your
database with any of that information it
also has the ability to be fully
multilingual so you can create
multilingual sites using web objects
technology so we're very excitable the
potential this offers to streamline page
generation and make it easier for people
to keep really rich visually compelling
websites very quickly and easily so
demonstrate that I'm inviting up Tom
Naughton from the wool bobis engineering
team Tom push to demo please
[Applause]
there's a lot of different ways that you
can create well obviously applications
from scratch or using various tools and
assistance we're gonna create a type of
application known as a display group
application very common way to view a
database is to look at a certain field
and then find other tables or fields
that are related to that piece of
information so we'll walk through the
assistant here and we can add frameworks
in this case we'll go ahead and add a
model into the database this is the
model that can be created the way that
we created our isn't just a few minutes
and this has information about the the
database and the relationships and all
the information about the databases in
the model this model can be changed to
support an oracle database to support
different entities or schemas and the
application doesn't know the difference
well look at the movies as our main
entity in the data model and we'll
choose a display group where we have a
selected record which then shows
matching records this creates a default
web component that has that information
and we just go through and select some
of the key information like what
information we want to support like the
title the category the rating we can
also traverse relationships for things
like the studio name so studio is a link
to another table that we're then able to
see as part of this same page all the
traversals handle automatically for you
by web objects moving along we can
choose a field for the hyperlink to
report the list of records that are
matched we'll use the title again and
we'll go ahead and query on the title as
well so we're going just finish and this
will go ahead and create just a very
simple web component so let's go into
the web components directory and
actually see the components that's
created we just double-click on the the
wou file that should launch web objects
builder and maybe you can maximize that
a little bit larger so you can see it
creates some interesting elements
including a repeating element within the
area and these are just very simple tags
added into an HTML file that say when
you get to this tag instead of just
returning HTML talk to a web of its
component and return dynamic data okay
so a very simple file a very simple XML
HTML file a very little piece of Java
code and you can actually go and run
this application and when you do we
really it launches will obvious
application it will actually be smart
enough to launch your browser of choice
and bring up the
orell for your web application and will
be turning along compiling Java on Mac
os10 taking a badge of the project
builder first time we're launching an
explorer here and you see we open up in
seconds a full complete sophisticated
web application go ahead and type in
some data and go ahead and select an
entry and it's there so we have a full
sophisticated web application created
from scratch using web objects in a
matter of seconds thank you very much
tom
and these are full-featured applications
you can edit browse delete add rows etc
and you can easily take the simple
application and customize it
these are things that usually take a
couple of weeks to get up to speed to
get your data model to get your page
generation you get your session
management all taken care of web objects
does the hard work for you it does all
using frameworks rather than generated
code for the bulk of the logic that's
going on because it's framework based
you know it's our code that we have
built that we have tested that is reused
across all your applications so you
don't have this huge massive generated
code to maintain as you sometimes get
with other development environments the
other great thing about this because it
uses frameworks we can substitute in
other frameworks for the viewing of your
data and one particular way to do this
is using rich desktop applications HTML
is great for a lot of browsing and for
the greatest possible reach but often
you want to have a much Richard to
highly interactive user experience which
has client-side caching for great
responsiveness very live active controls
and very to see them complex widgets so
do that we've tried a number of tools
for integrating both Java and cocoa
technology with web objects 5 and to
demonstrate that I'd like to amount up
Ron loose song from low Bobby was
engineering Ron
LaRon will get rid of the browser
because he doesn't need that for his
kind of apps and we'll go in to the
project builder again the heart of the
Mac os10 development experience we will
create a cocoa application and we'll
just going crazy at the project using
project builder and again the important
thing is choosing the model the model
defines the data access and persistence
of your application and provides the
strong typing that you can use to define
the other heuristics so we'll create a
fairly simple table here and I using
cocoa and we just specify the entity
that we want to look at as well as some
of the key attributes and again we can
use the model to go ahead and traverse
different entities and relationships to
walk through the data model and then add
a few forms in there for a more richer
and complicated user interface and again
add a query feel for what we want to
look at and that brings us in a project
builder instead of a web component we
now have resources in particular
interface builder file or an in and the
nib uses the technology known as a oh
palette which provides the ability to
drag and drop connections so if you
bring up like a connection inspector you
can see how like one of the tables those
things are actually those forms are
actually connected into the database
using the connection mechanism and
interface builder no troubles okay and
you clean that up the nib file the way
you wanted it right okay so Ron
rearrange submit budgets in the nib file
and we go ahead and build the
application and it's compiling the Java
down to jar files wrapping it in a shell
application conforming to the Mac os10
Packaging guidelines you get a nice full
double clickable application and it'll
automatically launch it for you and we
have live in Java a complete cocoa
application created using web objects
and enterprise objects let's fall live
very quick series you don't have to deal
with page refreshes or page resizing
everything just works great thank you
very much Ron
those are three of the really key
powerful advantages in web objects and
move objects five in particular the
other thing a scalable Java deployment
we have a nice compliant monitor
application that you can use to browse
all the different web objects
application servers on your network
managed instances controls and with hoja
boosters really easy to add new machines
and extend the reach of your application
we support multiple instances multiple
threads multiple processors all running
on one or multiple machines to make it
really to create very sophisticated and
powerful web applications
the other thing that's really exciting
about this that I wanted to just talk to
you about a lot of people were concerned
when they heard about the move to Java
wondering about
wasn't Java slow won't it hurt
performance so we've got some very
interesting results back as we've been
testing performance we did a simple test
where we insert C search for and delete
three movies the basic database access
loop that caused common in these kinds
of applications we ran it for basically
three server days six machines three
runs four or as each the rules were very
impressive on Mac OS 10 server version
10 testing it against four or five one
we found that we were 22% faster than we
were with what was four or five one on
Windows 2000 Pro we were over 50% faster
than we were and of course you think ok
well that's for certain platforms what
do I want to do some really heavy-duty
deployment on Solaris with Solaris who
are 187 percent faster
so I mean there's several just things
you can take away from this obviously
every application is different every
application has its own performance
characteristics this is a very simple
test but it's the test that we've been
using to monitor the performance of our
runtime and one of the things thing this
tells you is the Objective C stack was
highly optimized on Mac OS 10 it's been
very optimized on Mac OS 10 and the Java
stack has also been optimized on Mac OS
10 and you can see that we got a benefit
even just using Java versus a highly
tuned objective-c stack on other
platforms such as Solaris where there's
a lot of people working on the Java
stack and relatively few people work in
the objective-c stack performance is
even more impressive so this is the fact
that we're able to take advantage of all
the work that all the industry is doing
on Java performance on their database
drivers on the runtime tack on the
threading model makes it very easy to
deliver very powerful scalable java
applications using with objects 5 but
last but certainly not least is the
fantastic suite of tools to make we love
it's such a joy to use I mean most
people think of web application
developers just incredibly tedious
painful grungy thing with whoa ba
because it's fun
I mean how many you are addicted to what
about its development you know I mean
those of you using for a while there's a
sense of looks like if I can't I mean
some of you may know my history I
started out doing a next step
development involves in college and when
I graduated I end up going to management
consulting because I could not use the
tools that I was used to using on my
desktop there's no point in being a
programmer and with Apple acquiring next
and the web objects technology and
making it available in mainstream in the
mass market you know in gorgeous places
like the Apple retail stores you know
there's a chance for this technology to
really become mainstream and it actually
gets fun to program again I'm very
excited as you probably guessed so
there's 5 key technologies that are part
of web objects in the application tool
space web objects builder for HTML
layout and design interface builder for
laying out Java and cocoa applications
the project builder of course the heart
of our development experience the
fantastic enterprise object modeling
tool and of course rule editor some
people may not be as familiar with that
which is used for the directed Java and
a client and director web applications
to manage these automatically generated
applications and there's really four key
advantages we're stressing to people as
we go and talk to the press talk to
analysts
talk to customers well why they really
should want to consider web objects the
first one is rapid time to market web
objects is really designed to support
very sophisticated modular development
in fact you can build things in parallel
with very good isolation where the
frameworks do the hard work for you of
application design and partitioning as
well as some of the really painful grunt
work of session management page
generation and data access as well as a
really comprehensive suite of smart
tools to streamline the way you build
your application this is really a dream
environment for a lot of people who
don't really believe the web government
can be this easy and can be this fast
and I've had talking to someone at lunch
today within a business an industry
where you know they have projects that
are you know six months long and they
can't afford to spend six months doing
the design of their application server
they want something we can turn on an
application because we're bustin tested
in three months so they get their job
done that much quicker and this is the
tool for people like that Edition there
are the very powerful assistance that
allow you to create fully functional
prototypes in just seconds using the
director web and director Java client
functionality Kyle you browse your
database access your data from anywhere
and then iterate on the important pieces
to create more sophisticated and
complicated web applications the second
one is quality a lot of people you know
they rush things to mark and they have
to sacrifice quality with web objects we
try to reduce the problems there one is
that we have very mature set of
frameworks again well web excite is the
first for the version entirely in Java
but a lot of the technology has been
part of Java client web objects for
several generations and the frameworks
themselves designed by people who really
understand what objects who understand
object technology and object orientation
and are able to really design things
that simplify the way that you develop
your application and be able to refine
that over the five generations in five
years that wall ovens has been in
existence also the way to get around
Murphy's Law is to fewer things that can
go wrong because we all know that
anything that can go wrong will but if
you're running a small amount of
application specific code the number of
unique things that can go wrong with
your application it's much smaller and
if you're much more likely to get a
fully functional application much
quicker and because the same frameworks
or levers by so many people over so much
time the much greater ability to ensure
the quality of those things
well babak's really tries hard to
isolate
pieces of the application one from
another your data access your HTML your
biz
logic are all isolated from one another
when you see the kind of programming
models where you have web designers
working on pages which have scripting
code embedded inside the webpage which
talk directly to a database that means
if you're you know beautiful creative
graphic designer put the wrong comma in
their code they could corrupt your
corporate database this is not a good
idea we want people to understand the
importance of a properly
architect in their applications to
ensure scalability and security of your
application
things like Java client wear with web
objects you'd have three-tiered Java
clients where the sensitive code is on
the server rather than on the client so
if someone D compiles your Java client
they don't have access to all your
sensitive business logic where they can
talk directly to your data center very
powerful partitioning technologies to
really improve the security and
reliability of your application and last
but certainly not least having all the
referential integrity constraints
embedded declaratively in the data model
I mean we all know what it's like to
work on a long project and the wee hours
of the morning trying to beat a deadline
and it's very hard to make sure that you
member all the little things that are
the dependencies between different
pieces of your database in your
application and well babak's handles all
the hard work remembering those tedious
details for you to make sure your data
stays safe no matter how tired you may
be and certainly the big thing for Bob
because five is full accessibility to
Java web objects runs pretty much
anywhere with Java to platform standard
edition 1.3 obviously in order to be
qualified in support you need your own
one of the configurations we've actually
tested it against such as Solaris 2 8
Windows 2000 or Mac OS 10 server but the
fact that Sun Java makes it much easier
to run on a bunch of different places
makes it more familiar to Java
programmers and also makes it easy to
interoperate with other Java solutions
there are people who started working
with the beta or early releases of web
objects can grade it in with servlets or
egb containers or other Java
technologies out there web services etc
one of the more exciting things is we
integrate the latest xerxes xml parser
from the Apache Software Foundation
based on some very important IBM
technology and allows you to import an
export XML data into your web objects
application integrated into your
enterprise object models you make it
very easy for you to create things like
web services create things like XML soap
on top of web objects there's some very
exciting things we've done with web
objects people are doing with Mobe
objects today we just made them more
things that we expect to be able to do
with 12 objects five with the Java
cropper ability and we're looking at
some really interesting technologies
like enterprise javabeans and web
services and to make it even easier for
you to create those kinds of great
solutions with web objects but even
today because of the power of Java
because you can run on standard Java
virtual machines it is very easy for you
today to go out and integrate these
things with Sanders based technologies
wherever you need to to get your job
done in the environments that you're
working in your networks and Lassen this
can't be stressed enough
avi mentioned this in the keynote will
obviously proven solution some of the
best brands in the internet have
deployed very sophisticated
mission-critical web applications using
web objects because whether its
customers doing consumer oriented
websites higher education sites like the
University of Michigan portal creative
solutions like Adobe in scope or the BBC
News site or business solutions like the
MCI Worldcom
or ATT Wireless billing solutions these
are ministering critical applications
serving you know many customers and of
course that doesn't even mention some of
the incredible Apple solutions available
like the Apple Store and up and I tools
that service millions of our customers
of course the greatest thing about Baba
big spies especially for those of you
like me you've been around for a while
is that it's available today
here it's shipping feel free to applaud
as you know Apple decide this was just
way too powerful a technology to just
leave in the hands of a few very large
corporations with deep pockets so we've
priced it at $6.99 we put it in retail
outlets like the Apple Store so you can
walk down to Glendale and reclaim
Virginia or soon any of the other 25
Apple stores and pick up a copy of web
objects start building sophisticated
enterprise scale web applications today
it's available worldwide via the Apple
Store and authorized resellers
there's evaluation copies available how
many of you have already installed your
your developer tools CD you got on your
backpack okay some of you have started
for those of you didn't notice the
developer key that's associated with it
expires at the end of September and that
is located in the PDF file at the top
level there so make sure you read
through the readme and all of you read
through the readme before you install
but in case you don't be sure to do it
this time so you can get the license key
that you'll need in order to install web
object I'm also pleased to announce that
we have it we will be providing very
steep discounts to ADC members Premium
ambos will get well objects five for
free select members will be able to
purchase it for 399 almost half the
price we think this is fantastic than
technology we want to get it out to all
the developers we are putting the other
thing which isn't mentioned here is that
well box 5 deployment the full unlimited
deployment it will be available as part
of Mac OS 10 server version 10 so if you
buy Mac OS 10 server version 10 you can
deploy your web ABBA's application for
free as part of that it's very high
performance Java 2 implementation
robotics five will be available as a
single product it'll be a single box
containing the developer tools for both
Mac OS 10 and Windows 2000 as well as
deployments for Mac OS 10 server Windows
2000 and for UNIX a single box if you
buy from anywhere has all the pieces you
need to develop applications on the
leading desktop application operating
systems as well as deploy on virtually
any Java platform so that's the product
of web objects 5 of course there's more
to it than that just to give you a quick
roadmap of course what was 4 or 5 was
the version released last year really
bringing it to Mac OS 10 server the last
release of the world objects 4 or 5
train 4 or 5 1 was released in May which
supports objective-c applications on Mac
OS 10 provides a number of important bug
fixes for other environments and web
objects 5 of course was released this
week well bones for five will be
end-of-life in order to support what
works 5 will be in the channel blue
objects 4 or 5 1 will continue to be
available via phone order from the Apple
Store for quite some time to come to
enable our legacy customers in the
transition we definitely wanna see all
of you moving to Java this is the future
of database development on the Internet
and we're working very closely to make
sure that we have a good transition
story for our customers the Java
converter provided in both 451 and web
objects 5 will convert your Java code as
well as to having a lot of grunt work of
objective-c to Java translation
obviously the semantic differences which
require some effort a 1 4 5 1 is also
available for those who have existing
applications whether those are will
bobby's applications or legacy cocoa EOF
applications to be able you to run those
applications on Mac OS 10 however I do
want to stress the future of web objects
and of database development on Mac OS 10
is Java at that point and that's all I
had to say about the product at this
point I'd like to welcome welcome up
matt raphson of the documentation
manager protecting our publications to
share a few words about the
documentation strategy Raleigh
[Applause]
thanks Ernie
so web objects is a pretty large and
complex product it makes it really easy
to do a lot of things but it also lets
you do a lot of different things and we
have documentation to cover all these
different areas of the product there's
reference documentation for the API is
in multiple different frameworks some of
which you use every day some of which
you might only use when you're doing
some very specialized type of custom
configuration
there's tutorial and overview
information to get you started so that
you can get a nice gentle introduction
to the product and figure out how do I
approach this there is deployment
information which is something that's
sort of unique to what objects because
it is not only a sophisticated
development environment but it also has
a very sophisticated deployment story
where you're going to integrate multiple
different servers potentially several
machines running different instances of
your application dynamic load-balancing
talking to different web servers that
may be running on completely different
operating systems and there's a lot of
Technology built into web objects to
help you get that done and then we also
have information about specific focused
tasks we've got a Salesforce that has
been working with large customers and
also small customers for a long time
they've encountered specific scenarios
that seem to come up again and again
everybody wants to do this one thing and
if only it were described you know in
just this way we could in fact get it
done quickly
so those are available as part of the
documentation that's online on your CDs
gets installed on the system when you
install the developer tools you can also
find that type of information in the
tech notes from the website
developer.apple.com now as part of Apple
rolling this out to a wider audience
tutorial and introductory information
has been really important and we know
that people like to access things online
for
quick access but they don't necessarily
like to read lots of documentation
online you know sitting down and reading
through a 30 page PDF is about as much
as I can handle
at least on a screen will let alone a
200 page book that is going to give me a
complete overview so technical
publications has a deal with fat brain
to publish documentation online and also
make it available print on demand from
fat brain so the first book for web
objects that we released in this is
called inside web objects and it came
out this past winter I believe we
released it in January it is an overview
of web objects 5 gives you information
about what are some of the new
technologies in here what are the four
major development approaches that I
might take when I'm looking at web
objects and and my problem and whatever
I want to solve and gives you some
guidance as to what are the trade-offs
what are some of the performance
implications of taking one approach or
another what are some of the
flexibilities that I might get in from a
very high level
why should I choose one or the other of
these different approaches very shortly
we will have another book available from
fat brain called inside web objects
discovering web objects for HTML so this
is the first of what is going to be a
series of books examining the different
approaches to development on web objects
taking you through a fairly complex
tutorial application teaching as you go
so that you can figure out exactly how
do I write a web objects application
that presents a nice HTML interface to
users through a standard browser that is
highly scalable available and gives them
access to all the information they need
from your database so look for that on
our website coming very shortly and more
coming up in the next six months or mine
all right
thank you very much Raleigh
Raleigh's had an amazing job because
he's had to basically completely new
versions of fairly mature applications
coming out both Mac os10 M of objects v
in the space of about two months and
having to the CRISPR one who's used to
the older versions that wanted to have
complete comprehensive information about
everything on day one the way they're
used to after ten years of development
in other places so he's got a major
challenge we're staffing up very hard to
try and really keep up with the demand
for information about this and it's
concealed a while for us to catch up
with all the great work our engineers
have done we're very excited about the
plan we have in place to really try and
address that and get this information
more out to you
sooner and more comprehensively of
course having information is great
having people is even better
we're approached have some of the best
people in the business working with
Apple professional services and this
point I'd like to welcome up Tim Johnson
and James Dempsey from Apple I services
hi James and I are gonna take a few
minutes to talk about apply services and
what we've been up to about a year ago
we are chartered with with delivering
professional services around Apple and
Apple's technology web objects being a
fundamental cornerstone to that that
plan we also offer integration services
around Mac OS 10 and Mac OS 10 Networks
technical training which is really what
James is going to spend a lot some time
on as well as technical support on the
consulting side we offer a full range of
professional services from project
management to software development to
integration migration planning with web
objects and third-party solutions I just
want to throw out some some synergies
that you might might think about for
example web objects could be used to
develop applications to help manage Mac
OS 10 networks and the information in
directory services like LDAP to help
manage that so there's a lot of a lot of
exciting things that can be done around
Apple technologies and how they can be
leveraged together we continue to offer
technical support for web object
development and deployment and we offer
that in two levels the silver and gold
we do this through support personnel who
are not only expert in their field they
also strive to deliver that information
in a personalized fashion with the goal
of delivering of establishing a
relationship between Apple and you and
as you would expect with any profession
any technical support organization they
deliver that in a timely and quick
fashion thanks Tim um so I wanted to
talk just a little bit about technical
training in Apple I services as Tim
mentioned last year we were given the
task to bring what has historically been
in the three years I've been with the
department a web objects training
organization and deal more with all of
the core technologies of Apple Computer
we've been very very busy and
next four weeks we are going to be
rolling one a week for brand new or
revised courses we are going to be
revising webobjects development one and
two those will be shipping in about two
weeks and we are also working on
revising web objects deployment for five
in addition we are very happy to
announce today two new system
administration courses for Mac OS 10 Mac
OS 10 server as well as certification
programs around that finally we are also
currently shipping a cocoa development
course that we've been working very hard
on that we've also been using internally
to train over 200 of Apple's own
software engineers I guess the final
thing I'd like to say is that in your
bag you that you receive today when you
registered you'll find a card that
entitles you to 25% off any of our
developer training courses that is a
deal that is good as long as you sign up
for the training while you are here at
the show by visiting our booth after the
show
it's a 10% discount that lasts for a few
months the details are in the fine print
on the card so we're very very excited
about being able to support web objects
5 with training that's been time-tested
over years revising it updating it for
the new Java pure Java version of web
objects and thank you very much
just to just to throw out for more
information you can go to our website at
apple.com slash I services but again I
would encourage you to visit the exhibit
fair where you can get the extra
discount on the the training and
addition answer any questions thanks a
lot all right thank you so as I
mentioned before we have a little
surprise for you one of the questions
that people have asked is why is Apple
doing web objects and there's a couple
of myths that one is that it's just so
cool how could we not but but the other
thing is that you know as you heard this
morning we are now the largest reseller
of UNIX systems the people who build the
Internet run on UNIX and we are
committed to making we have sure that we
can really live up to that legacy I come
from a long time using BSD for - way
back in the UNIX community I'm a
card-carrying usenix member I really
like the culture of the community of
UNIX and the power and the mindset I've
always been sort of appalled by the
graphical interfaces that we've had in
the UNIX world which is why I fell in
love with next step and open step and so
forth and the great thing about Mac OS
10 we really bring the power of UNIX
with the simplicity of the Mac and we're
really able to really try and marry some
of these things and one of my goals in
development platforms is truly make Mac
OS 10 the best platform for web
development and so we're really trying
very hard to make sure that we work with
the Java the UNIX the web objects the
other technologies we have truly create
a very powerful and compelling solution
for UNIX and Java developers doing web
development as well as helping all of
you people who've been maybe involved
with the web objects or the Apple
community for years really take
advantage of some of the great things
available in web development we have a
lot of sessions going on this week
starting with the technical overview
this is sort of this the real broad
brush of the wallops community some of
the key features to really start digging
into the technology and how to start
building stuff there's the overview
we're also trying to make sure that we
allow you to overlap with some of the
key sessions from the Mac os10 track
like the project builder introduction to
allow you to understand the tools that
you're using on Mac OS 10 there's sort
of a break point the first couple of
days are really folk
on introductions to web objects and the
key technologies for all the people who
are new to the community for some of the
old hands who've been through this a
couple of times you might want to start
checking some of the advanced sessions
available later on in the week starting
around Wednesday afternoon so we look at
make up is something in here for
everyone
there's a lot of content in here
robotics team not only shipped a product
at developer conference they shipped 17
sessions in partnership with ice
services which is just a fantastic job I
want to give them another round of
appreciation for all the work that went
into that
and of course although we all believe
that while our x5 is wonderful and it's
a great way to deliver apps it's still a
work in progress we know there's gonna
be a few things that we miss that may
have annoyed you or certain things that
you want to do with this product we may
not have considered and we want to hear
that I'm here
Bob Fraser my product manager is here we
are here to listen to you to understand
what it is you need what you want to do
with web objects how we can make your
life better how we can help you get web
objects and even more places how I can
really help make Mac OS 10 the best
platform for web development hope we can
make Mac OS 10 server the best platform
for deploying rich Internet content
using web objects Apache and QuickTime
streaming that's what we're here for
if you don't catch us during the week
you can catch the feedback forum and
lend us your ears so for more
information we have a couple of
different places to go actually a lot of
different places to go the web objects
at Apple comm is the best single email
address to use that'll go to both
marketing engine engineering to make
sure that we track feedback and
information that you may have for us for
things that may require code snippets or
more lengthy examples than we can jot
down it's a great place to send us
information about what you need for I
services for consulting integration
training and support there's an 800
number as well as websites there's
several different websites there's an
Apple comm web objects page which some
recently updated by Bob to cover all the
great new features in with objects 5
there's a developer.apple.com website
which will be updated soon to cover
developer resources for web objects
there's the eye services website there's
also an apple support site maintained by
Robert and his team which has discussion
boards tech info library articles lists
of updates and other information we've
also just recently created a web object
announce mailing lists which I need to
go finish and send an email out to so as
I get out of here to probably people
information about new releases of web
objects as well other important
information affecting the web objects
community
you